September 17, 2012
COSC 310
Software Engineering

Pair Programming
	One computer, one programmer, one backseat programmer

	Roles
		Driver (programmer)
		Controls the computer
		responsible for creating tests and code
		Explains his inentions as he programs

		Copilot (backseat programmer)
		watches the driver
		probably nags a lot
		makes corrections and suggestions
		can switch anytime

	Why would we do this?
		Elements of development, tutoring and review
	"Two heads are 1.7 times better than one"
	benefits:
		Real time code reviews
		Avoid distractions***
		increasted awareness and confidence
		Making the same decision is more powerful than one
			avoid making decisions from a single perspective
		Knowlege and information migration

	There is evidence that pair programming is more efficient than two programmers working separately
	Supports collective ownership and responsibility --Both individuals are responsible if something goes wrong
	It acts like an informal review process because the code is looked at by at least two people

	Studies have shown that with more experienced programmers, the results were not replicated--they were better off working alone


	EXERCISE:
		Pair programming:  Programmer writes instructions for taking care of the dog while the owner is away, backseat programmer does his backseat programming
		thing.

	1: Feed the dog twice every day, 3 yellow cups of the food in the bin, morning and evening 8-10am, 6-8pm
		Place 3 scoops of the cup placed in the bin.  Make him sit and wait for you to tell him it is okay to eat.  Tell him he's a good boy when he starts to 		eat
	2: Let him out in the afternoon and clean him up at night.  If he asks to go out, let him go.  Watch him to make sure he does not eat his poop.
	3: Walk him for one hour total, (can take him for one long walk or two shorter walks).  Stay away from aggressive looking dogs.  Take at least 3 poop bags.
	4: Bathe him once every week on Friday or Saturday.
	5: Make sure his water dish is full at all times
	6: If he is restless, play fetch with him in the back yard for at least ten minutes
		When he comes back with his ball tell him to "Leave it" if he does not drop it.  Give him a treat and tell him he's a good boy when he's done.